## Project Summary
This study focused on a single school: Cornerstone Academy, Zimmerman. The school operated a fleet of 5 vehicles serving about 300 students. However, it experienced challenges that arose from the complexities of planning school bus routes with any scientific approach whatsoever. Additionally, little data regarding the school’s transport operations was kept track of and maintained.

This study therefore set out to address these issues by: mapping bus stop locations and demand, generating optimized routes, and visualizing the generated routes. The generation of routes was implemented using a capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) solver (i.e. the OpenRouteService (ORS) through the Vehicle Routing Open-source Machine (VROOM)). Moreover, the visualization of stop locations and demand, as well as optimized routes was implemented as an interactive web map. The web map was actualized using Leaflet JS on the frontend, a PostGIS database backend, and a Flask application as the middleware between the frontend and backend. 

Due to challenges in data availability only data from three of five existing routes was used in this study. Three routes were generated serving 55 stop locations and a total of 107 students. These routes registered the following approximated metrics: total travel distance of 55.7 kilometres, a total travel duration of 82 minutes, and a total fuel cost of 10.6 litres. The stop locations and demand were visualized as an interactive proportionate symbol web map while the generated routes were visualized as an animated route map. 